# Market Risk Methodology

There are multiple assumptions that are made when modelling risk factors. These choices need to be selected and reviewed to allow for an accurate representation of returns from the simulation engine. The Risk Measurement Performance Review Stream will be responsible for maintaining and signing of on the representation of risk factors and results of the risk simulation. For example, bond spread factors could be simulated as a bond yield or zero yield. Bond yields could also be simulated as a spread to another curve or an all-in rate. The results of the calibration and simulation engine are highly dependent on these assumptions. See https://finpricing.com/lib/FiZeroBond.html

A review of modelling assumptions has been incorporated. For example, in the work leading up to a new project, the simulation of base metal commodity futures was changed from an all-in representation to a spread against commodity forwards. The revised modelling assumption helped to improve the accuracy of the basis between futures and forwards, which previously exhibited nearly unbelievable scenarios that were far outside the realm of a 99% confidence level. As part of the commodities, equities and fixed income portions, joint efforts between VPC, RO, and Risk Models have reviewed the basic premises in the risk factor definitions including the use of constant maturity risk factors in commodities and zero interest rate yields for simulation.

A distribution analysis of historical returns against simulated returns will be performed in cases where material adverse effects are observed. This includes the evaluation of important spreads (such as libor-OIS) as well as outright prices (such as libor futures and swap instruments) using statistical tests for model validation (such as the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test). The simulated scenarios should be able to effectively reproduce the original correlation and volatility matrices used as inputs while considering VaR as a forward looking measure.

Items identified through the assessment in the prior section will require proxy trades to represent the enhanced risk exposure in the official VaR system. As discussed, for market data differences, VPC market data will be passed to the source system and new risk sensitivities will be computed. The observed change in the risk sensitivities between the new and old sensitivities will then be recorded and used to construct a new proxy trade. There is formal proxy trade governance and procedures that will be followed to implement the proxy. Once the proxy is implemented, it will be updated monthly assuming the associated IPV balance remains material.

For adjustments driven by source system constraints, the solution will depend on the nature of the limitation. Generally speaking, the solution will be to book a proxy trade in the source system to reflect the omitted effect. This would be booked and maintained by the LOB with verification by Risk Oversight/VPC. A good example of this is the proxy trades booked to represent the effect of OIS discounting for CSA-based interest rate swaps. As part of the proxy trade governance requirements, a memo detailing the nature of the proxy and roles and responsibilities will be created.

If the approach above is not feasible or practical, the VPC IPV platform will be used to provide the risk sensitivities. Specifically, the platform will be used to revalue the portfolio via a perturbation in the inputs, thereby providing the desired risk sensitivities. These sensitivities will then be recorded and used to construct the proxy trade.

Measures for model validation will include the p-value measure as it is currently implemented in the production system[1]. The p-value helps to provide validation against the distribution of simulated returns against the hypothetical full revaluation P&L (clean P&L). The ability to compute the p-value at the limit letter and legal entity levels is required as part of the build out.

The Risk Models quarterly benchmarking exercise between full revaluation and Greek-based VaR should be reviewed to understand the degree of approximation. A divergence greater than 5% should be investigated to understand the implications of the ‘missing’ VaR Greeks.

